*Software Installation*

ReplicatorG0040 is the ideal software to use with the dual extruder Creator Pro. It can be downloaded from the official website by following the link below and click on Download.

http://replicat.org/download

ReplicatorG0040 for Windows users can also be found in the folder of information of 3D printer on the SD card, which shipped together with the Creator Pro.

Steps for installing your software:
1. Download the appropriate version of ReplicatorG suitable for your system from http://replicat.org/download.

2. From the SD card shipped with your printer, browse to the “information of 3D printer” folder and run the Python installation file and the Python acceleration components.

3. After completing the Python component installation, click Replicator-0040-Installer to install the ReplicatorG software.

4. To run the ReplicatorG software, double click the shortcut on your desktop or in your start menu.


After opening ReplicatorG software, click on Machine to select the Machine Type. Choose The Replicator Dual for Creator Pro dual extruder machine.

After selecting the appropriate machine type, click on GCode on the top navigation bar, and under GCode Generator, select Skeinforge(50).


The following gives an introduction on how to import files (.STL) into the Replicator G software and then generate Gcode to print your creation.

Click File > Open, then browse and select the file (.STL) that you would like to print. Import the file by double-clicking on it. Then the drawing will appear on the Replicator G interface.

When the object is imported you may find that it is not on the virtual build platform or even on the screen, using the function keys indicated by the blue boxes in the illustration above, you can change the camera angle and reposition the object onto the center of the build platform. Once you've done this, the next step is to generate the Gcode. This is achieved by clicking on the button (Generate GCode) at the bottom of the panel.

A new window will pop up, giving you several options on how the Gcode will be generated.

After you finished inputting in the settings, click Generate Gcode and the progress bar will appear.

After the Gcode is generated, the temperature of the bottom plate needs to be changed if you print PLA filament. See below for the required modification. First, select Gcode as shown highlighted in the illustration below and change M109 S110 to M109 S50 to set the HBP temperature at 50°C. Then click File > Save to save this modification. If you print ABS filament, then no HBP temperature modification is needed.

Insert 3D printer SD card click on the arrow with SD card button to export .x3g file for SD card print.



*Printing your file*

Make sure printer is powered on

Clean printing surface with clean cloth and alcohol to ensure good contact

Insert 3D printer SD card is inserted behind control panel

Select 'Build from SD' from the menu

Select your file from the list

Allow the print to finish and completely cool before removing

Carefully remove the object without scratching the print surface
